.DD March 9, 2007
.TH gshterm 1
.SH NAME
gshterm \- transparent vte-based terminal emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gshterm
.B [[-f
font
.B ] [-g
geometry
.B ] [-s
font_size
.B ]][-e
command
.B [
arguments
.B ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I gshterm
is a vte-based terminal emulator.  It supports pseudotransparency and
antialiased fonts by default.  Additionally, the command execution specification
is improved over that of the vte program.  Improved command line handling 
was the primary motivation for writing 
.I gshterm.
Other an appealing visual display of pseudotransparency and antialiased fonts,
the user interface is quite simple.  This means that there are no extraneous
features such as configuration files, terminal multiplexing, or scroll bars.
It is quite useful for hosting screen sessions, if you desire multiplexing of
shell sessions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f font
Specify either a font name or font string, in fontconfig format, to use for the
terminal widget.
.TP
.B \-s size
Specify a font size, if only a font name was specified in the
.B \-f
option.
.TP
.B \-g geometry
Specify the application geometry.
.TP
.B \-e command [args]
Execute a command in terminal, with optional
.B args.
.SH AUTHORS
gshterm was written by Alisa Bedard <alisabedard@gmail.com>.  
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <alisabedard@gmail.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007, Alisa Bedard
This  is  free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO 
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
ACE (1) gtkshell(1) system.antiright(5) X(7)
